## Why we need this doc

Thanx Engineering team has more than doubled over the last year. We expect to 
double again this year. When we were a smaller team, it was easier to get 
alignment across the team. As we grow, it is important that we lay the 
foundations of how we operate.

## Who we are
**We are curious.** We’re constantly learning. We always ask why.

**We are confident.** We're a strong team that strives to maintain the right 
balance between confidence and humility. When faced with a hard problem, we 
don't shy away; not only because it's not in our nature, but because we know we 
can lean on our teammates when we're stuck.

**We are reliable.** Freedom and responsibility go hand-in-hand. When we commit 
to something, we deliver the goods - with high quality, on time.

**We are constantly improving.** We’re not satisfied with the status quo - 
individually on collectively. We are always looking to improve our knowledge, 
tooling, process, and platform.

**We are transparent.** We communicate clearly, particularly when setting 
expectations on timelines and progress.
  
**We collaborate well.** We are believers in whole is greater than the sum of 
its parts. Whether its whiteboarding designs, frequent paired-programming, or 
problem-solving with other teams, we prefer teamwork over operating in silos.

**We take reasoned risks.** Risk and reward are two sides of the same coin. We 
celebrate reasoned risk-taking. We own our mistakes, and always seek to learn 
and grow.

##   How we build things

**Decomposition, Reusability, Consolidation.** We love breaking down problems 
and creating encapsulations for reuse. We apply these design principles across 
all levels of our stack as a habit rather than a chore.

**Simplicity.** We keep our systems simple. Instead of chasing shiny objects, we
collaborate and build scalable systems that solve our business goals, now and in
the future.

**Standards and Documentation.** Our team, customers, and platform scale are 
growing rapidly. Through architecture, design and code reviews, we build systems
that are scalable and flexible, code that's easy to understand and extend.

**Testing.** We don’t ship without unit, functional, and integration tests. period.

**Security.** From PII to PCI, we deal with sensitive data. Data integrity and
security is paramount for us, our merchants, and their customers. We are 
paranoid about security, and proactively do everything in our power to 
safeguard the trust customers and partners have placed in us.

**Metrics.** What gets measured, gets done. We collect data at each stage of the
development lifecycle and make strides to constantly improve our systems and 
processes.

**Excellence & Pride.**  We're proud of what we do and the software we write.
From using the right design patterns to writing defensive code to careful code 
reviews, deploy automation, production monitoring, we account for and safeguard 
against errors at each stage of our development process to ensure our systems 
are performant and reliable.

